[MUSIC]
Module 2, Lesson 1, Lecture 1.1,
setting up your environment.
So this entire module is about
the C programming language.
C, C++.
The reason for this is because
arduino is programmed in C++.
Really, C but a little bit of C++.
So this module is just about C,
teaching you C.
Now because of that,
we're gonna go through C, and
actually we won't be talking in this
module much about Arduino specifically,
we'll just be talking about the C
language, and of course this will apply,
but I'm assuming that your
environment may not be Arduino.
This whole module could generically
be on a desktop, laptop or anything.
Doesn't have to be Arduino.
In fact, our starting example,
in the starting program,
the program you always start with when
you're learning C is hello, world.
Just prints hello, world to the screen.
Now, notice I mentioned screen.
Arduinos don't have screens.
So I'm already assuming that you're
using a desktop or a laptop.
So I just wanna describe for
you how you would set up your desktop,
laptop environment in order to run these
programs to work with the programs that
we're gonna talk about.
So we've already talked about the Arduino
IDE, but that won't be useful for
instance this program, where it prints
hello, world, cuz that print doesn't work.
The printf statement doesn't work properly
on an Arduino cuz there's no screen.
So let's just talk about setting up
the environment on a Windows machine,
a Mac, or a Linux box.
[COUGH] So basic things you're gonna need.
You're gonna need a text editor and
a compiler.
Now notice that the Adruino ID puts
that all together into one tool, right?
We need the same things
on a Windows machine, or
whatever platform you're gonna use.
Actually, I prefer Linux for
this type of thing, but
whatever machine doesn't matter.
Now text editor can be any text editor,
but I mean, if you want to,
you could use Word, but you generally
want to use a programmer's text editor,
one that recognizes
programming constructs.
So there are plenty of those around.
I use GNU tools, GNU tools are free.
Free tools.
[LAUGH] Free, like just great.
Free and open source, and everything.
So I use GNU tools.
So I'm giving you links to where
you can get appropriate GNU tools.
You don't have to use these,
but they're nice.
So Emacs text editor, I always use that.
That's just a text editor.
You can type your code in there.
Gcc C compiler.
You can download the C compiler,
which you're gonna need, CC++ compiler.
And also the debugger, gdb,
you can download that too.
Actually we're not gonna talk
too much about the debugger.
So you don't have to worry about that,
but the text editor and
the compiler are useful.
Actually, Emacs is a text editor
that I've used since way back, and
nowadays I use Notepad++,
which is also a GNU tool.
Notepad++.
You know Notepad,
it comes with your machine.
Notepad++ is much nicer.
And you can use that too,
it's also on www.gnu.org.
So you get some text editor and
a C compiler.
That C compiler, GCC, is great, and
it's open source, and it's great.
The text editor, Emax or NotePad++,
they both understand C constructs, so
they'll indent for
you properly, color things on the screen
for you properly, and all of that.
So they're nice.
You can run on Windows.
I would say MacOS and Linux are even
easier because MacOS is actually a Linux.
It's actually a version
of Linux underneath so
you don't have to install any of this.
Gcc comes pre-installed
on those platforms.
Windows, you have to do it separately and
that's fine.
Now another way to go
rather then using GCC and
E max is to use another integrated
development environment eclipse.
Eclipse is a common one you
can use anyone you want but
you can use eclipse its a common one open
source now the difference is see the way
I write my code I do everything
with the command line, so
I'll go to my text editor,
type in the code, save the file.
Then I'll go to the command line and
say type in the command,
the compile command directly.
Gcc, give the name of my file.
And I'll show you that in the next slide.
So that's a way I do it, but
a lot of people like to use these IDE's.
Like the Arduino IDE that
packages everything in one tool.
So you type the code into the IDE and
in the same IDE you click a button
that compiles the code or in Eclipse
it's called building the code, right?
So people like to use IDEs like
Eclipse and you can download that and
use that too.
That's fine.
It puts all the tools together in one
nice GUI, nice graphic user interface,
just like Arduino on IDE.
You need to run Java Virtual Environments.
So, Java Runtime Environment, you have
to have Java installed on your machine,
because the Eclipse IDE
is written in Java But,
that's also true of the Arduino IDE,
so shouldn't be a problem.
You can download it from here or
Google it and you can find it.
Also, besides using Eclipse you could
also use Microsoft Visual Studio.
That's not free, you have to pay money,
but you can use that too.
Eclipse is nice and free.
Okay, so here's an example of writing
the code and compiling it and
running it the way I do it.
So I do it, this actually, what I'm
doing in here, I'm doing it in Linux.
So I'm running it in the Linux.
I do everything at the command lines.
So the top window that you see up there.
That is my Emacs window.
That's my text editor.
And you can see in there,
I've written my code.
That's my program, print hello world.
And I saved it.
So I saved it to a directory.
Then I go the command line
which is a different window and
you can see that in the bottom,
compile and run.
Where there I compile the code, you can
see I type GCC that calls the compiler,
GCC gave the name of the program -O and
then after the -O, -O is short for output.
It gives the file name that I want
the executable to be, I called it hello.
So -O hello.
So after I do that command, in my local
directory, there will be a program, a file
called Hello, and that is my executable.
So if I type LS, since this is Linnex,
LS gives me a directory listing.
It shows me what's in the directory, and
I see there's a program called Hello.
Note that even though I type LS here, if
you were doing this on a Windows machine,
you would type dir, okay,
in the command prompt.
In the cmd window, you type dir,
it does the same thing.
If you own a Mac, then you would also
type ls, because it's also a Linux box.
If you open up the terminal
you would type LS also.
So I get the directory and I type./hello.
You would think you could just type
hello to just run the code, but
you have to type dot-slash to tell
it to look in the local directory.
So you type ./hello, it takes the hello
program, runs it, and prints hello world.
And that's that.
So that's, you want to have that
whole tool chain installed.
You can use the GNU tool chain
that I talked about, eclipse, GCC.
You can go with IDE like eclipse,
not eclipse, Emacs and GCC.
You can go with an IDE like Eclipse.
You can use NotePad++,
whatever text editor you want, but
get something like this program running.
So you want to install that whole chain
top to bottom so that you can just take
a piece of code, write it, save it,
and execute it like you see there.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]